H1N1 is a new type of influenza,
or flu, virus.
It is thought to spread mainly by
coughing and sneezing,
which spreads infectious particles
that others breathe in.
Flu viruses typically infect
cells lining the nose,
throat, and lungs.
Proteins on the virus’s outer coat
bind to receptors on the surface
of a normal human cell.
Through a process called endocytosis,
the virus’s outer proteins
merge with the cell’s outer membrane
and the virus enters the cell.
Inside the cell,
the virus is transported
to an acidic area
called the endosome.
The acidity causes the viral
core to disassemble.
The core contains viral proteins
and 8 segments of viral RNA,
which carry the virus’s genetic information.
Each RNA strand
enters the cell’s nucleus,
where it is copied,
first as a template
and then many times.
Viral proteins are also reproduced.
The different components join together
outside the nucleus
to form new viral particles.
They travel to the surface of the cell,
where they acquire a protein coat
and are released to spread
to other cells and people.